In this video, we're going to generate the JSON Web token and then store it inside of our cookie as
a quick reminder on how to use cookie session.
Once we have the JSON web token generated, we can take a look down at the example section.
Here's the example section on the cookie section session documentation right here.
That's how we store some information inside the cookie.
We do a rec session.
Record session is going to be an object that is created by the cookie session middleware.
Any information we store on this object will be automatically serialized by cookie session and stored
inside the cookie.
So once we generate that JSON web token, we're going to set it on record session, and that's pretty
much it.
That's all we have to do.
So how are we going to generate the JSON Web token itself?
Well, we're going to use yet another package.
So once again, on NPM, I'm going to do a search for JSON Web token.
There are many libraries with a very similar name, so make sure you put JSON web token all one word
with no dashes in it.
I'll then go to the first result.
It should have the exact name json web token.
There's really just two things we need to know about this library.
It has a method that allows us to create a JSON web token called sign.
When we call sign, we're going to put in a payload as the first argument.
The payload is going to be the information we actually want to store inside the JSON web token.
The second argument is going to be a signing key.
We will have a further discussion about this signing key in just a little bit.
The other thing about this library, you need to understand.
Is that there is a method called verify.
So this is how we're going to make sure that a user did not somehow mess around with the JSON web token
that was created.
We are also going to use this method to pull information out of the JSON token as well.
So in other words, the payload we had stored inside there.
Okay.
So let's install this back at our terminal.
So I'll go back over to my terminal.
We'll do an NPM, install JSON web token.
And this library has the same issue as cookie session.
It does not have native typescript support.
So we have to add in a type definition file that we'll add in at types slash JSON Web token.
Quick reminder, make sure you're inside of your auth project directory.
Okay.
Let's run that.
These are once again very small modules.
So the installation should be pretty quick.
Once that's all installed, I'm going to go back over to my editor.
I'm going to find my roots directory and then the sign up folder inside there.
At the very top.
I'm going to import.
JWT.
From JSON web token.
I'll then go down towards the bottom of our route handler.
So right after we save the user to the database, right after that is probably when we want to generate
the JSON web token and then set it on the session on the REQ object.
So right here, I'm going to add some comments just to guide myself.
We're going to generate JSON Web token, store it on the session object.
Okay.
So let's get to it.
To actually generate the JSON web token, we'll say const user, JWT is JWT sign.
And then remember the first argument to this is the payload, the information we want to store inside
the JSON web token.
The only requirement that we have for that payload.
Is that we want to store inside there some information about this user.
So again, we don't want to just have the fact that a user is signed in.
We don't want to just have an empty JSON web token.
We want to know who this is and all of our other services that are going to access the information inside
of here.
So at present, the only real information that we have about a user is their ID that was generated by
MongoDB.
We've got their email and their password.
We probably don't want to share the password around with the world even though it is hashed and salted.
But we probably do want to share the ID and the email.
So when we sign this thing or when we generate the JSON web token, we're going to provide a payload
that has the idea of the user as user ID.
We'll have the email of the user as user.
Email.
I'm still getting an air here.
That's because we are not providing the second argument of the secret or private key.
Now, as a reminder, I said just a moment ago, we're going to discuss this private key in just a moment
and how to securely handle it in a Kubernetes and Docker environment.
But for right now, we'll just leave in a PDF, so we're going to come back and replace that very shortly.
Yes.
That's going to generate our JSON web token.
One little mistake here.
If we double check the signature of this thing, it turns out that when we generate the JSON web token,
we have either an async or synchronous mode.
We can go back to the documentation, so it will run asynchronously if we provide a callback.
In our case, we are not providing a callback.
That means we should get the JSON web token back instantly after it's been created.
So now we're going to take that user JSON Web token and we're going to store it on our session.
So we'll do a rec session.
Dot JWT is user JWT.
Now.
I'm still getting a little air right here.
The reason for that?
The type definition file that we installed for cookie session is not assuming that we actually have
an object present as record session.
So rather than trying to just directly set a property like this right here, which is what you saw back
in the documentation, usually what we do with TypeScript, just to kind of circumvent this or get around
this whole issue, we usually redefine the entire object and set it on rect session.
So we'll create a new object, give it a JWT property, and then put our user JSON web token on there.
And again, that's just because the type definition file that is being handed off to JSON or submitted
to TypeScript doesn't want us to assume that there actually is an object on rect session.
Okay, so that looks pretty good.
So we generated our token, we set it on the session.
The cookie session library is going to take this object, serialize it and then send it back to the
user's browser.
So last thing here, let's save this and let's do a quick test over in Postman.
So back inside of Postman.
Here we are right here.
I'm going to change the email address to something that is unique once again.
I'm going to make sure I've got a body request or sigh of body with raw and JSON selected.
I'll make sure I've got a content type of application JSON and I'll go ahead and send this thing.
Now, after I send it, we'll go over to the cookies tab right here, and you'll notice no cookies returned
from the server, even though we successfully logged in to the application.
The reason for this, once again, is because the cookie session middleware that we just wired up,
we configured it to say ignore any cookies that or do not try to manage any cookies if the user is connecting
over an HTTP connection.
Right now we are making a request to ticketing dev and we have not specified the protocol, which means
that postman is going to default to HTTP.
If we change this to https colon, slash slash.
And then make the request again.
Okay.
Well, emails and you got to get a unique email and once I do, now we are connecting over an HTTPS
connection.
If I go to the cookies tab now, I'll see that a cookie has been set.
And so this right here, this is our actual JSON web token.
That's it.
Cool.
That looks pretty good.
A quick thing here.
If you made this follow up request and it resulted in an error, if Postman said sorry, insecure connection
or connect, connect or something like that.
But it was working previously without the https.
Then here's what to do.
Go up to postman preferences.
And then on this menu, you're going to make sure that SSL certificate verification is turned off.
Because remember, right now we have an invalid temporary certificate being served by ingress engine
x.
After you turn that thing off, you should then able to be able to make a request with HTTPS and have
it go through.
All right, so that's it.
We've now got our cookie being set.
We've got our identifying piece of information on there, which means any time we make a follow up request
to anything at ticketing, so any service and the rest of our application, this cookie right here will
be included.
And we're going to get our JSON Web token.
Cool.
So let's take a pause right here and continue in just a moment.